they were pre-vet and their mother was a public
school teacher in baytown apparently something
of a legend down there and anyway that was my first
experience with that terribly smelly
environment
And the other was to Houston just to see the big city
with a couple of the Houston boys. What else did you
and your buddies do then on a weekend here that
summer? Walk the bullring. Oh. I did anyway. And
what were your alleged shortcomings that led you
to be on the bullring? Exercising freshman
privileges. Oh, okay, such as? Well, to get away
with whatever you could and not getting caught.
Well, mine began with not polishing brass well
enough or shining shoes well enough and just the
military things. And I'd get a demurriate or two,
and they built up a little bit along. And this was
because the first,
well, June and into mid-July, I'd say, it took that
long for me just to know whether I was going to drown
or not down here in this place with trying to get on
top of chemistry and just do everything. And so...
I was doing, I was making an effort anyway. I won't
say I was doing my best, but I was making an effort to
do the military things, but I came up short pretty
often. And I accumulated quite a few demerits. And
so I got to the point, I can't remember how many you
were allowed before you had to start walking the
bullring to get them off. But anyway, that
happened along in mid-July. And as I got involved
in that, then the pressures of the
classroom began to subside a little bit. I began to
see, well, I believe I'm going to be able to do this
after all. Well, I began to join in. some of the
activities of my fish buddies, you know, of trying
to do whatever I could get away with. And then the
demerits started accumulating a little faster.
Give some examples of the pranks that y'all...
Well, the ones that, you know, that I think, well,
During my year, the first pranks that freshmen
would do would be drowning out other students,
either their fish buddies or upperclassmen. Of
course, that was after you'd gotten your
technique down a little bit where you'd get the
upperclassmen. And so those were common things.
And then doing things with firecrackers for
upperclassmen.
I wasn't involved in this, but it is an example of
one of the pranks that I remember from that summer.
We had one of the juniors, the second in command
junior, was a guy with very poor vision. And he had
visual limitations, vision limitations, I
guess. And
one of the freshmen turned
a bottle of ink upside down on a piece of cardboard
right in front of his door and pull that out then of
course and he came up and picked it up and of course
got ink all over him and we had to scrub of course we
had to take the ink off that all everybody did but
we had firecrackers with You could buy these, I
don't know if it was Lindberger cheese, or it was a
pretty aromatic cheese anyway, that you could buy
in little sacks. And this was a pretty popular
prank at the time to open
one of those and put one of the big firecrackers in
it. wrap it in plastic and put it in there and then
light it and toss it down to the end of the hall where
the CO or upperclassmen's rooms were. And then
they'd blast all over their door and everything.
And so you all did that in the summer? Yeah.
As that summer goes on, how did you communicate
with your family, your folks at home? Letters,
phone calls? Just letters. About how often? Well,
I think I started out maybe once or twice a week,
probably. I remember getting fussed at by my
mother when I went home after summer school was
over that I needed to write more often. and how as
you as summer school was over and you go home for
three or four weeks how did you feel about summer
school did you feel you'd made some progress
well i felt at that point i felt pretty good about uh
having passed everything and particularly the
chemistry yeah uh that was it had been represented
a big challenge to me and so I certainly felt much
better about that. I
felt that you know it was I was looking when I went
home then I was looking forward to coming back in
the fall and we had a lot of the guys that this had
been a common item of discussion in August toward
the end of summer of the summer school program of
how much more we were going to know than the other
freshmen that came in in the fall and how you know we
could get them involved and get them in trouble
doing you know give them these things to do not as
orders but you know just telling them why don't you
go do this or that so we were looking forward to
doing that sort of thing and What did you do in that
break at home between summer and fall? Did you work
on the farm? No. See, at the end of the last class,
the last crop that we made was the crop between my
junior and senior year. Oh, okay. in high school
because my dad, while
I was a senior in high school, my dad took
possession of one of his restaurants that was in
Winters. He had provided the funding for a
restaurant to be built there by someone he knew
from Brownwood. And he felt he had to take it over.
He didn't like the management that was going on
with it. And this was just when Winters was
beginning as an oil boom town. And he was certain
that it was going to be a good location. So they
moved down. I stayed with an uncle, lived with an
uncle to finish my high school year. We were no
longer associated with the farm. The farm had been
leased out for that year to my uncle. So did you go
back to the farm or back to town for that break? I
spent that interim in Winters. So I don't remember
anything. Did you work in the restaurant? I
imagine I did a little bit. I just don't have any
recall of. All right. Then that fall, when you come
back, how did you get here? that fall, do you
remember?
I may have hitchhiked. And I'm assuming you had
left your stuff in your footlocker. Yeah, here.
And about how long did it take to hitchhike from
Winters to it was amazingly it was an amazingly
efficient means of transportation I marveled at
it at the time and I still of course now I guess you
never think of doing that but I've made I have made
faster trips probably my fastest trip from here to
Winters was by hitchhiking, because I got with an
old boy one time, and golly, his car would go almost
100, and that's the way we went. What route did you
normally take? From Angelo to Waco?
No. Well, sometimes with hitchhiking, you get a
ride to Waco, and then go across to Gatesville and
Goldwaite, and up to Brownwood, and then across to
Winters.
Did you ever get stranded hitchhiking? You know,
left somewhere for two or three hours, or the whole
night?
I don't believe I ever did. And did you ever have a
negative experience? No, I really didn't. I just
assumed that there would be some of those. I had
some really positive experiences with...
Describe some of those. I was picked up by... in
Hearn. I got a ride to Hearn, and then was picked up
out of Hearn by a young man going to Temple, on his
way to Temple, and he had a an uncle and his family
that lived,
trying to think of the name of the little town. It's
about 12 miles this side of Temple, between Temple
and Hearn.
Not Marlin? No, it's a little tiny town. We'll
think of it later. Anyway, this was a German
farmer, and he had a young family, and so we stopped
in there, and it was just about 1130 or around
lunch. I'm thinking that probably that was why the
driver wanted to stop. He was... I didn't know it at
the time but he obviously was also a German ethnic
German individual and so at about lunch time if you
had family nearby well you'd stop and take lunch
with them and they were very open with me and had me
in to eat lunch too and I that was a quite an
experience to me to see this german family and
uh... very rather regimented uh... experience
with all the children coming in very very well
behaved a lot of you know just stair step down it
seemed like there were five or six of them and uh...
the father was very much in control overseeing the
whole operation you know said grace in a very
formal way and It made an impression on me such that
I remembered it through the years. And in all of
those hitchhiking efforts, you wore your
uniform, you didn't use a sign. No, I had a bag with
an A&M symbol or sticker on it. I kept that until we
moved out here, and it had gotten so tattered. I
regret throwing it away then. Now I regret it. Was
it normal to put your thumb up? Mm-hmm.
Okay, you come back then in the fall, and to what
outfit were you assigned? Squadron 4. I was in
Squadron 3 in the summer. And what was the nickname
of Squadron 4? Didn't it have a slogan or a
nickname? I don't remember it anymore. This was a
freshman squadron, see. It was still a freshman,
we were in a freshman, we had freshman squadrons at
that time. Oh, I see. Why then? Well, that's just,
that was the custom. See, they had had some, this
was,
this was the first or second year back from the
annex. Mm-hmm. And so maybe I can't remember if
this was the fall of 51. I believe that's the first.
I think it was the first year back. And that was the
reason that they tried that summer school thing
was because they were coming back on campus. And
maybe they had tried it out and had it. I'm thinking
that they had summer school for freshmen. the last
year they were out at uh and so where were we all
quartered in the fall uh north north near sabisa
uh-huh we were still over there in right in that
group of dorms and at that time all of the see in the
summer only two of the dorms two of the four you know
13 there's 14 15 16 and 17 are the numbered dorms
they also have names which they go by now and I don't
know those but in the summer we used two of those
dorms we occupied two of those dorms in the fall all
four dorms were occupied along with Walton Hall in
that month or so break between summer school and
fall when your parents or anybody else asked you
what A&M was like in the summer, what did you tell
them? It was hot and it was
really hard. I haven't really talked about the the
uh... not physical hazing but the you know the
mental hazing that occurred that summer that was
really intense such as well the problem it's just a
matter of uh... is the mind games that go on with
introducing yourself as a freshman and then they
ask you asking you questions and just harassment,
you know, mental harassment, which was really, I
don't think, hurt any of us and was really quite
useful. I mean, I think I grew out of the total
thing, but I'll
never forget the first
day that the, all the upperclassmen were back here
and we went to this was the second morning that we
fell out to go to breakfast and we marched in and
when we came out of Sabisa to go back to dorm 14 which
was just on the other side of the hospital at that
time there was just a sea of civilian garbed
boys men whatever students out there and see they
didn't have to wear a uniform but they expected you
to know who was a junior and who was a sophomore and
who was a senior and so if you would go to one and you
whip out and there was a senior standing next to him
and this was a sophomore well he would just let you
have it for whipping out to him and not meeting that
sophomore that senior first So at about 11.30, I
had made maybe, well, I'd gotten across the street
and was maybe 10 or 15 feet down in the direction
toward my dorm. And they finally, they broke it up.
I don't remember who all was involved, but they
wanted to get us back to our room in time so we could
fall out for for chow at lunch and it you know I was
just I was just jelly practically because boy I had
been you know yelled out and screamed at and it just
went on all summer that way then. Now uh in the fall
the outfit you were in was not yet a veterinary a
pre-vet no uh-uh was there any cohesion to it at
all? To the unit? Was there any particular
similarity of major? No. These were pretty large,
numerically large outfits. They divided the,
there'd be more students in a freshman outfit, or
there was that year. And practically all of them
were freshmen. I mean, there was just a small
number. And you summer freshmen were unusual
compared, because the majority were, that was
their first day. Uh-huh. Was there a nickname for
those of you who had been here in the summer? No.
There, now there were
some of them who,
about, well I won't say many a fair number of the
freshmen in that class accelerated and adopted
the class of 54 and others stayed with I'd say the
majority stayed with class 55 but there's
probably a third of them third of the students the
guy that I came down here with for from Winters for
example he he was a aeronautical engineering.
Well, it was aeronautical
engineering, I guess. How did you register in the
fall? Do you remember? I stood in line at SEBISA.
And who advised you on what to take? Was there
somebody who kind of reviewed it before you?
General, this was in, you went, we went, those of us
that were here in the summer, the last week or two of
summer school, well, we had to go to the Aggieland
Inn. Okay. And they had a general studies division
there. And
we had a... There were counselors there, and then
there were counselors, what was that? There was a
frame building where the chapel is now. And we had
to go there, too. Some of us went over there for some
things. And you took a full load. And at that point,
as far as you knew, your plan was to go to vet school
after two years? Yes. In the fall semester, that
was very much what I planned to do. All right, so
what was the, describe the routine then for the
fall with football season coming on and taking a
full load. What was the routine like for an aggie
fish on a class day? Well,
the, you mentioned the board. Now, my
introduction to the board occurred on college
night what was that well this was the this was the
first Monday night of class and we went to the Grove
the whole student body went to the Grove and we had
the the football team was introduced and the head
coach talked to spoke a few minutes but in in in the
proper order of progression of things. You know, a
lot of the administration spoke. Dr. Harrington,
as I remember, he was the first one, or the main one,
I guess he was president at that time. And
we had a board session after the introduction,
after that was over, out in the the grove of live oak
trees. It is between Wellborn Road and
then dorm 17, I guess. And who received the board?
Who got hit with the board? Well, there were
several of us that got a lick or two, just so that
we'd understand how this. And there were juniors.
juniors that did it. What was the board made of? It
was a wood, but was it a baseball bat or a? No, it,
well, no, it was, it wasn't, it wasn't made out of,
that particular one wasn't. I've seen them that
were, where they'd cut off the end a little bit and
then plane it down very, very sharply. But this was
a one by three or something like that? Is, yeah. And
did, did you have to drop your pants or? No, just
pull them tight, you know, you were, You're
supposed to lean over and grab as much of the slack
as you could and stand up straight. And that would
diminish the possibility of heavy bruising. And
what did the other guys, what kind of noise did they
make after each lick? Did they yell or anything
like that? No. Silent. Yeah. Wow. And did anyone
ever get hit high or low? Someone would, you know,
maybe it was something like that. Were there any
high or low shots where somebody got to return the
lick? No, not that evening. And we had,
that happened, I wasn't involved. I mean, I wasn't
present. That happened during my sophomore year.
We had some hell-raising juniors in there. in the
outfit I was in. Right, so in the fall routine,
you're assigned to a room and the routine really
gets going. Who was your fish oil lady and what was
described the room and the routine that the two of
you had? Well, we were crowded. There were too many
freshmen. were the dormitory space, so I had two
fish old ladies.
Bo Smith and Jack Lee were my fish old ladies, and we
had a single cot that had been wired to the top above
the, double bunk beds, so we had three. Three high.
How was it decided who slept in which of those?
Well, it was up to us to decide,
and Bo Smith was,
well, he volunteered for the top one.
He was, that's just a trait of his personality.
He's very accommodating, always has been and
still is. He was a pre-vet, as it turned out. We were
not assigned together because of our major. And
Jack Lee was an accounting major. And did y'all all
become good friends? Yes, and still, we still
communicate. And you had three desks, three study
tables? Mm-hmm. So there wasn't much floor space.
No.
We had a footlocker under the table. Was there a
radio in the room? Yeah. And Jack Lee had a- Hot
plate? No, a turntable for a record player. Oh,
okay. A little record player. And he had a lot of the
little records, were those 33's or- 45's. 45's,
yeah. And was it okay for a group of fish to play?
Just at certain times. Oh, okay. okay which meant
that we played it uh as often as possible at other
times uh all right and since it was an all freshman
freshman dormitory then our freshman outfit you
all didn't have to go clean up well we did but not we
weren't permanently assigned there were in the
fall we did have uh You know, the CO never had to
clean up his room. Wiley Briscoe was the CO.
But this was something that the, Well, it was one of
the freshmen, I guess, that was assigned to
develop the roster and maintain the roster of
cleanup. And
as y'all went to Sabisa and then classes all day,
academically, what was the routine for you that
fall? Taking a heavy load, more chemistry? Yeah,
and this was a
This is when I really had problems. I started out in
organic chemistry. And I think everything would
have probably been all right if it
had been a level playing field. But being one of the
few freshmen in a course that was taken by
sophomores and juniors especially a lot of
sophomores in there it was uh there were a lot of
other things on your mind other than why were you
who advised you to take that because you'd already
had inorganic in the summer yeah and uh
that i i don't remember that i guess uh how i wound up
in it but i did and it It was really unfortunate
because I wound up dropping, basically dropping
it, but it was a WL because I was just out of my
element. Who did you turn to for advice?
I can't remember the name of... This was in the...
It was Austin Curley over at...
no i don't i remember him but i don't remember i
didn't have a contact with him at that time did did
everything else go okay that fall yeah but um
well i also i had well i i can't remember if i made
what